---
layout: post
title: Week 1 Blog
---

Week 1 of Software Engineering

Past Week and Reaction to class

This past week was the first week of Software Engineering and school for everyone at UT.  
Professor Downing introduced himself and told us about the class.  He went over the 
syllabus and his expectations for everyone in both sections of the class.  He then showed 
us some example files in Python on the first day, Wednesday, and then Friday, he 
introduced the first project, Collatz.

What's in my way is personally getting organized for school.  I need to sit down and make 
sure I have all of the important dates for each of my classes written down in my calendar,
 this includes homeworks, projects, quizzes, and tests.  I am in my last semester at UT 
 and for each of my classes I mainly just have big group projects to do.  Therefore, for 
 this class, I just need to focus on getting myself organized and making sure I do my 
 readings for this class and start on the projects ahead of time.  Another thing that is 
 in my way is brushing up on my Python.  It's been a while since I have coded in Python, 
 so I just need to refresh my memory and then I will be a little more relaxed.

For this upcoming week I am going to focus on starting project one, Collatz, for this 
class.  Professor Downing will finish going over it tomorrow in class and then I need to 
dedicate the rest of the week on getting it done.

Overall, my first experience in the class for the first week, I am a little bit nervous.  
I was and still am very interested in learning about Software Engineering, so I am 
excited overall for taking this class and learning.  I am also nervous at the same time.  
There is a big workload in this class and the projects are going to be difficult, so I 
hope that I am able to figure it all out and do well.  The first quiz was very difficult 
on Friday, but now I know what to expect and will know how to prepare myself better, so I 
just need to be ready for that every day this semester.  Professor Downing seems like a 
great professor thus far and is very enthusiastic about teaching us, so I look forward to 
the rest of his lectures.  The examples he has given us so far were very basic, but I 
won't lie, I was afraid to get called on in class because I did not want to mess up when 
he asked me a question.

Tip:

For my tip, if you are having any sorts of problem installing Ruby on Rails on a Mac, 
I found this website: http://railsapps.github.io/installrubyonrails-mac.html/.  
It helps you install Xcode, Xcode command line tools, configure git, install Homebrew, 
GPG, RVM (Ruby Version Manager), Ruby, check your Gem manager, gemsets, and global 
gemsets, install Bundler, and finally install Rails.  So it helps you get everything set 
up and then teaches you how to use Rails, so how to create folders and applications, etc.
